Allow a None default in QuantityAttribute (#9345)
astropy/astropy: docs/coordinates/frames.rst

Defining a New Frame
====================

Implementing a new frame class that connects to the ``astropy.coordinates``

> infrastructure can by done by subclassing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
infrastructure can be done by subclassing
```

(see :ref:`astropy-coordinates-representations` for more information about the
supported ``Representation`` objects). For example, to create a new frame that,
by default, expects to receive its coordinate data in spherical coordinates, we
would create a subclass as follows::

    >>> from astropy.coordinates import BaseCoordinateFrame
    >>> import astropy.coordinates.representation as r
    >>> class MyFrame1(BaseCoordinateFrame):
    ...     # Specify how coordinate values are represented when outputted
    ...     default_representation = r.SphericalRepresentation

Already, this is a valid frame class::

    >>> fr = MyFrame1(1*u.deg, 2*u.deg)
    >>> fr # doctest: +FLOAT_CMP
    <MyFrame1 Coordinate: (lon, lat) in deg
        (1., 2.)>
    >>> fr.lon # doctest: +FLOAT_CMP
    <Longitude 1. deg>

However, as we have defined it above, (1) the coordinate component names will be
the same as used in the specified ``default_representation`` (in this case,
``lon``, ``lat``, and ``distance`` for longitude, latitude, and distance,
respectively), (2) this frame does not have any additional attributes or
metadata, (3) this frame does not support transformations to any other

> coordinate frame, and (4) this frame does not support velocity data. Let's

Reviewer: ```suggestion
coordinate frame, and (4) this frame does not support velocity data. Let us
```

> coordinate frame, and (4) this frame does not support velocity data. Let us

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
coordinate frame, and (4) this frame does not support velocity data. We can
```

address each of these points by seeing some other ways of customizing frame
subclasses.

> Customizing frame component names

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Customizing Frame Component Names
```

---------------------------------

> First, as mentioned by the point (1) :ref:`above <astropy-coordinates-design>`,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
First, as mentioned in the point (1) :ref:`above <astropy-coordinates-design>`,
```

some frame classes have special names for their components. For example, the
`~astropy.coordinates.ICRS` frame and other equatorial frame classes often use
"Right Ascension" or "RA" in place of longitude, and "Declination" or "Dec." in
place of latitude. These component name overrides, which change the frame
component name defaults taken from the ``Representation`` classes, are defined
by specifying a set of `~astropy.coordinates.RepresentationMapping` instances
(one per component) as a part of defining an additional class attribute on a
frame class: ``frame_specific_representation_info``. This attribute must be a
dictionary, and the keys should be either ``Representation`` or ``Differential``
classes (see below for a discussion about customizing behavior for velocity
components, which is done with the ``Differential`` classes). Using our example

> frame implemented above, let's customize it to use the names "R" and "D" instead

Reviewer: ```suggestion
frame implemented above, we can customize it to use the names "R" and "D" instead
```

"x", "y", and "z" when the representation is changed to a
`~astropy.coordinates.CartesianRepresentation`. With our example above, we could
add an additional set of mappings to override the Cartesian component names to
be "a", "b", and "c" instead of the default "x", "y", and "z"::

    >>> class MyFrame3(BaseCoordinateFrame):
    ...     # Specify how coordinate values are represented when outputted
    ...     default_representation = r.SphericalRepresentation
    ...
    ...     # Override component names (e.g., "ra" instead of "lon")
    ...     frame_specific_representation_info = {
    ...         r.SphericalRepresentation: [RepresentationMapping('lon', 'R'),
    ...                                     RepresentationMapping('lat', 'D')],
    ...         r.CartesianRepresentation: [RepresentationMapping('x', 'a'),
    ...                                     RepresentationMapping('y', 'b'),
    ...                                     RepresentationMapping('z', 'c')]
    ...     }

For any `~astropy.coordinates.RepresentationMapping`, you can also specify a
default unit for the component by setting the ``defaultunit`` keyword argument.

> Defining frame attributes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Defining Frame Attributes
```

-------------------------

Second, as indicated by the point (2) in the :ref:`introduction above
<astropy-coordinates-design>`, it is often useful for coordinate frames to allow
specifying frame "attributes" that may specify additional data or parameters
needed in order to fully specify transformations between a given frame and some
other frame. For example, the `~astropy.coordinates.FK5` frame allows specifying
an ``equinox`` that helps define the transformation between
`~astropy.coordinates.FK5` and the `~astropy.coordinates.ICRS` frame. Frame
attributes are defined by creating class attributes that are instances of
`~astropy.coordinates.Attribute` or its subclasses (e.g.,
`~astropy.coordinates.TimeAttribute`, `~astropy.coordinates.QuantityAttribute`,
etc.). If attributes are defined using these classes, there is often no need to
define an ``__init__`` function, as the initializer in
`~astropy.coordinates.BaseCoordinateFrame` will probably behave in the way you

> want. Let's now modify the above toy frame class implementation to add two frame

Reviewer: ```suggestion
want. Let us now modify the above toy frame class implementation to add two frame
```

now appear in the ``repr`` of the frame instance above. As a bonus, for most of
the ``Attribute`` subclasses, even without defining an initializer, attributes
specified as arguments will be validated. For example, arguments passed in to
`~astropy.coordinates.QuantityAttribute` attributes will be checked that they
have valid and compatible units with the expected attribute units. Using our
frame example above, which expects an ``orientation`` with angular units,
passing in a time results in an error::

    >>> MyFrame4(R=1*u.deg, D=2*u.deg, orientation=55*u.microyear) # doctest: +IGNORE_EXCEPTION_DETAIL
    Traceback (most recent call last):
    ...
    UnitConversionError: 'uyr' (time) and 'deg' (angle) are not convertible

When defining frame attributes, you do not always have to specify a default
value as long as the ``Attribute`` subclass is able to validate the input. For
example, with the above frame, if the ``orientation`` does not require a default
value but we still want to enforce it to have angular units, we could instead
define it as::

    orientation = QuantityAttribute(unit=u.deg)

In the above case, if ``orientation`` is not specified when a new frame instance

> is created, its value will be `None`: Note that we leave it up to the frame

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
is created, its value will be `None`: Note that it is up to the frame
```

classes and transformation function implementations to define how to handle a

> `None` value.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`None` value. in most cases ``None`` should signify a special case like "use a
different frame attribute for this value" or similar.
```

Defining a New Frame
====================

Implementing a new frame class that connects to the ``astropy.coordinates``
infrastructure can by done by subclassing
`~astropy.coordinates.BaseCoordinateFrame`. Some guidance and examples are given
below, but detailed instructions for creating new frames are given in the
docstring of `~astropy.coordinates.BaseCoordinateFrame`.

> and ``default_differential``  and ``Differential``

Reviewer 3: Hanging cut & paste leftover???

add an additional set of mappings to override the Cartesian component names to
be "a", "b", and "c" instead of the default "x", "y", and "z"::

    >>> class MyFrame3(BaseCoordinateFrame):
    ...     # Specify how coordinate values are represented when outputted
    ...     default_representation = r.SphericalRepresentation
    ...
    ...     # Override component names (e.g., "ra" instead of "lon")
    ...     frame_specific_representation_info = {
    ...         r.SphericalRepresentation: [RepresentationMapping('lon', 'R'),
    ...                                     RepresentationMapping('lat', 'D')],
    ...         r.CartesianRepresentation: [RepresentationMapping('x', 'a'),
    ...                                     RepresentationMapping('y', 'b'),
    ...                                     RepresentationMapping('z', 'c')]
    ...     }

For any `~astropy.coordinates.RepresentationMapping`, you can also specify a
default unit for the component by setting the ``defaultunit`` keyword argument.

Defining frame attributes
-------------------------

Second, as indicated by the point (2) in the introduction above

> :ref:`astropy-coordinates-design`, it is often useful for coordinate frames to

Reviewer 3: Probably want to make `introduction above` a link.

Without specifying an initializer, defining these attributes tells the
`~astropy.coordinates.BaseCoordinateFrame` what to expect in terms of additional
arguments passed in to our subclass initializer. For example, when defining a
frame instance with our subclass, we can now optionally specify values for these
attributes::

    >>> fr = MyFrame4(R=1*u.deg, D=2*u.deg, orientation=21*u.deg)
    >>> fr # doctest: +FLOAT_CMP
    <MyFrame4 Coordinate (time=B1950.000, orientation=21.0 deg): (R, D) in deg
        (1., 2.)>

Note that we specified both frame attributes with default values, so they are
optional arguments to the frame initializer. Note also that the frame attributes
now appear in the ``repr`` of the frame instance above. As a bonus, for most of
the ``Attribute`` subclasses, even without defining an initializer, attributes
specified as arguments will be validated. For example, arguments passed in to
`~astropy.coordinates.QuantityAttribute` attributes will be checked that they
have valid and compatible units with the expected attribute units. Using our
frame example above, which expects an ``orientation`` with angular units,
passing in a time results in an error::

>     >>> MyFrame4(R=1*u.deg, D=2*u.deg, orientation=55*u.microyear) # doctest: +SKIP

Reviewer 3: I think you'd want `# doctest: +IGNORE_EXCEPTION_DETAIL` (e.g., `time/index.rst` for examples)

    UnitConversionError: 'uyr' (time) and 'deg' (angle) are not convertible
    ...etc...

When defining frame attributes, you do not always have to specify a default
value as long as the ``Attribute`` subclass is able to validate the input. For
example, with the above frame, if the ``orientation`` does not require a default
value but we still want to enforce it to have angular units, we could instead
define it as::

    orientation = QuantityAttribute(unit=u.deg)

In the above case, if ``orientation`` is not specified when a new frame instance

> is created, its value will be ``None``: Note that we leave it up to the frame

Reviewer 3: Can be single back-ticks, so you get a link to python's `None`

If your frame has this class as an attribute::

  >>> from astropy.coordinates import Attribute
  >>> class Egg(BaseCoordinateFrame):
  ...     can = Attribute(default=Spam())

When it is displayed by the frame it will use the result of
``_astropy_repr_in_frame``::

  >>> Egg()
  <Egg Frame (can=<A can of Spam>)>

> Defining transformations between frames

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Defining Transformations between Frames
```

If your frame has this class as an attribute::

  >>> from astropy.coordinates import Attribute
  >>> class Egg(BaseCoordinateFrame):
  ...     can = Attribute(default=Spam())

When it is displayed by the frame it will use the result of
``_astropy_repr_in_frame``::

  >>> Egg()
  <Egg Frame (can=<A can of Spam>)>

Defining transformations between frames
---------------------------------------

As indicated by the point (3) in the introduction above

> :ref:`astropy-coordinates-design`, a frame class on its own is likely not very

Reviewer 3: As above.

useful until transformations are defined between it and other coordinate frame

> classes. The key concept for defining transformations in ``astropy.coordiantes``

Reviewer 3: Type in astropy.coordinates

For a demonstration of how to define transformation functions that also work for
transforming velocity components, see
:ref:`astropy-coordinate-transform-with-velocities`.

> Supporting velocity data in frames

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Supporting Velocity Data in Frames
```

    ...     default_representation = r.SphericalRepresentation
    ...     default_differential = r.SphericalDifferential
    ...
    ...     # Override component names (e.g., "ra" instead of "lon")
    ...     frame_specific_representation_info = {
    ...         r.SphericalRepresentation: [RepresentationMapping('lon', 'R'),
    ...                                     RepresentationMapping('lat', 'D')],
    ...         r.CartesianRepresentation: [RepresentationMapping('x', 'a'),
    ...                                     RepresentationMapping('y', 'b'),
    ...                                     RepresentationMapping('z', 'c')],
    ...         r.SphericalDifferential: [RepresentationMapping('d_lon', 'pm1'),
    ...                                   RepresentationMapping('d_lat', 'pm2'),
    ...                                   RepresentationMapping('d_distance', 'rv')]
    ...     }
    >>> fr = MyFrame4WithVelocity2(R=1*u.deg, D=2*u.deg,
    ...                           pm1=3*u.mas/u.yr, pm2=4*u.mas/u.yr)
    >>> fr # doctest: +FLOAT_CMP
    <MyFrame4WithVelocity2 Coordinate: (R, D) in deg
        (1., 2.)
    (pm1, pm2) in mas / yr
        (3., 4.)>

> Final notes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Final Notes
```

-----------

You can also define arbitrary methods for any added functionality you
want your frame to have that is unique to that frame. These methods will
be available in any |skycoord| that is created using your user-defined
frame.

For examples of defining frame classes, the first place to look is
at the source code for the frames that are included in ``astropy``
(available at ``astropy.coordinates.builtin_frames``). These are not

> "magic" in any way, and use all of the same API and features available to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
special-cased, but rather use all of the same API and features available to
```

For a demonstration of how to define transformation functions that also work for
transforming velocity components, see
:ref:`astropy-coordinate-transform-with-velocities`.

Supporting velocity data in frames
----------------------------------

As alluded to by point (4) in the introduction above

> :ref:`astropy-coordinates-design`, the examples we have seen above mostly deal

Reviewer 3: As above (maybe it just The Right Thing?)

with customizing frame behavior for positional information. (For some context
about how velocities are handled in ``astropy.coordinates``, it may be useful to
read the overview: :ref:`astropy-coordinate-custom-frame-with-velocities`.)

When defining a frame class, it is also possible to set a
``default_differential`` (analogous to ``default_representation``), and to
customize how velocity data components are named. Expanding on our custom frame
example above, we can use `~astropy.coordinates.RepresentationMapping` to
override ``Differential`` component names. The default ``Differential``
components are typically named after the corresponding ``Representation``
component, preceded by ``d_``. So, for example, the longitude ``Diffferential``

> component is, by default, ``d_lon``. However, there are some defaults to be aware of. Here, if we set the

Reviewer 3: Line too long

default ``Differential`` class to also be Spherical, it will implement a set of
default "nicer" names for the velocity components, mapping ``pm_R`` to

> ``d_lon``, ``pm_D`` to ``d_lat``, and ``radial_velocity`` to ``d_distance``

Reviewer 3: Probably good to add the `pm_R_cosD` version?

Author: You mean a new example frame here with `SphericalCosLatDifferential`? As this example is mainly about overriding component names, I'm not sure it is necessary (we link to the "Creating Frame Objects with Velocity Data" page that has more detail about the differential classes themselves). But maybe I misunderstood your comment!

Reviewer 3: No, I just meant to mention `pm_R_cosD` as one of the standard "nicer" names (and I think I'd use it too, instead of `pm_R`, but that is less important).
